# DLList(CS61B Lecture 6)

## Problem in SLList

The add and remove to the tail of the list could be really slow. Recall how we speed up to get the size of a list --using caching, we may add a pointer which points to the tail of the list. This works for adding an element to the end of the list, but when we want to remove the last element of the list, we need to let the tail_pointer points to the previous node of the current tail node, we still need to iterate through all the list to get this node. Cache this node is obviously meaningless, because next time we do a remove, we need another previous node. And this will lead us all the way back to the first node.

## Doubly Linked Lists(DLList)

We can add a pointer for each node in the list, and make this pointer points to it's predecessor node!

### Iteration of DLList

* 1. sentFront and sentBack nodes. Considering the tail_pointer in DLList, sometimes it would point to the sentinel, sometimes not, and we need to check the status of the tail_pointer. This is annoying, so we can make 2 nodes in the list, one is sentFront(the sentinel), another is sentBack(always the tail of the list), then every element added to the list would be located between these two nodes.
* 2. Circular Sentinel. Without these two nodes mentioned above, we make the last node's next points to the sentinel! This means for an empty list, the next of sentinel is sentinel itself.
* 3. The type of the element limits the use of Lists. One solution is to add a type parameter when defining the List class. [Check the video here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xt4dKEUokz4&list=PL8FaHk7qbOD5Gy1o06RRilCqv0So31lJt&index=4), I won't show the difference in the Testcodes.
