# Inheritence (CS61B Lecture 8)

[Lecture Video](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8FaHk7qbOD7Ycy9QeJSPXVoTwAH52Rlw)

## Method Overloadding

When a method can be used for 2 or more different classes, it's ok in Java to define multiple methods with same name.

### Downsides

1. Code will be unnecessarily long.
2. Repeating yourself is asesthetically gross.
3. More code to maintain.
   - Any change made to one, must be made to another.
   - So does bug-fixing.
4. Another class added, another function needed.

## Inheritence in Java

We will use a new keyword `interface` to define an Interface.

```Java
public interface Father<Item> {
    Interfaces;
}
```

Then the inherients would implement this interface, by using keyword `implements`

```Java
public class Inherient1 implements Father<Item> {
    Implements1;
}

public class Inherient2 implements Father<Item> {
    Implements2;
}
```

Then a method which takes in a Father object can be used on both Inherients defined above.

## Overriding

If a "subclass" has a method with the exact same signature as in the "superclass", we say the **SUBCLASS** overrides the **METHOD**.

NOTE: We can add an `@Override` tag above the overrided methods. The only effect of this tag is: The code won't compile if it is not actually an overriding method.

## Interface Inheritance

- Interface: The list of all method signatures.
- Inheritance: The subclass "inherits" the interface from a superclass.
- Interface specifies what the subclass can do, but not how.
- Subclasses **MUST** overrides all of these methods!
  - Will fail to compile otherwise.

## Implementation Inheritance

In interface inheritence, subclass inherits signatures, but **NOT** implementation. How to make subclasses inherit implementations?

**Use `default` keyword to do this**

```Java
// Inside the class Father
default public void methodName() {
    Implementations;
}
```

Then this method can be straightly used in Inherients.
Note: If a subclass wants to override the default method in Father class, an `@Override` tag is necessary. Without this tag, the method won't be overriden.

### The Dangers of Implementation Inheritance

[Check the video here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9KuVnIje2Ys&list=PL8FaHk7qbOD7Ycy9QeJSPXVoTwAH52Rlw&index=11)
